
Pseudo-science and Human Belief
“Night Walkers and Mystery Mongers: Sense and Nonsense at the Edge of Science” is a feature that appeared in the tenth volume of the “Skeptical Inquirer”, in 1986 written by Carl Sagan. He was an American author, science popularizer, astronomer, cosmologist, and astrobiologist. He published more than 600 scientific papers and articles. In the text Carl Sagan express his strong view by saying that scientists should spend more time on dismissing unscientific beliefs and propagating scientific ideas through society. It helps common people to escape from superstitious beliefs.
Carl Sagan talks about two mysterious people ‘Alexander of Abonutichus’ and ‘M Lamar Keene’. Both of them made money by deceiving and cheating the people.’ Alexander of  Abonutichus’ made money by using a serpent..By using the serpent he suggested solutions for unresolved questions or problems. To get the solution people had to submit their question in a sealed envelope.  Actually what he did that he break seal and read the message and remake the envelop and attach  a response. M Lamar Keene also made money by cheating the people through the spiritualistic medium like Alexander ,M Lamer Keens also read sealed envelope and suggested solutions for the un solved problems. Instead of breaking the seal, he uses a bright light and lighter fluid to read the questions .Apart from  that , he could communicate with the spirit of the dead man. Sagan also introduces an important book , Extraordinary popular delusion the madness of the crowed ,written by Charles  Mackey. This book talks about many fraud subjects like prophecy , faith healing, haunted house etc. And he also talks about another mysterious act , levitation . It is the act of raising or  thing in the air by supernatural means. Sagan says that it is not scientific and not possible to fly in the air without any aid.
Pseudo-science is set up to look for evidence that supports its claims, and science is set up to challenge its claims and look for evidence that might prove it false. Carl Sagan is a person who beliefs in science. I am agreeing with him. In our society we can see a lot of fake faces with a lot of fraud minds. Science is giving a chance to us to change with their scientifically approved proof, but our mindset that belongs to the old society thoughts and actions that have no meaning and it not letting us to escape from this old mind set. human are different from other animals we have higher IQ level. But acting like a fool in-front of this pseudo-science make us lower than the level of other living beings. Maybe thinking before our actions and societies action will help us to understand what is write and wrong.


Aleena Samson CH
1st B.com Finance

